---
name: "Lesson 0x02"
about: Learning git fundamentals.
title: "Lesson 0x02"
labels: ''
assignees: ''
---

## Introduction

In this lesson you will learn how to use `git` to save your work and you will
learn to use GitHub to host your software projects.

By the end of this lesson you will:

* Learn to use a terminal.
* Learn some basic `git` commands.
* Create a customized profile page.
* Create a customizable blog.

For this lesson you will need to [open your Codespace](codespace).

### Hello Terminal

Each of the following commands need to be run from the terminal.
You will type the command and then hit the Enter key to run the command.

Explain what happens when you execute the following commands:

* [ ] `pwd`
* [ ] `ls`
* [ ] `cd .`
* [ ] `man ls`
  * press `q` to close the man page.

### Git - Terminal

In this section, you will learn how to interact with `git` from the terminal.
In the following exercise you will initialize a new git repository, add a
project README file and save it in git.

Complete the following steps in your Codespace.

* [ ] Create a new directory. `mkdir -p ~/src/github.com/myusername/hello-world`
* [ ] Change directories. `cd ~/src/github.com/myusername/hello-world`
* [ ] Print the working directory. `pwd`
* [ ] Initialize an empty git repository. `git init`
* [ ] Create an empty README file. `touch README.md`
* [ ] Add a heading to the README. `echo '# Hello World' >> README.md`
* [ ] Check the status of the files tracked by git. `git status`
* [ ] Add the README file to git. `git add README.md`
* [ ] Commit the new file with a friendly message. `git commit -am 'Add a README'`
* [ ] Check the status of the files tracked by git. `git status`
* [ ] View the history of changes in the git repository. `git log` (note: press `q` to exit)

### Git - VSCode, Source Control Manager (SCM)

In this section, you will learn how to interact with `git` from within Visual Studio Code.

* [ ] Open VSCode in a new workspace. e.g. ~/src/github.com/myusername/goodbye-world
* [ ] Create a new file named "README.md" (File -> New File)
* [ ] Add content to the README.md
* [ ] Open the SCM section in the side bar.
* [ ] Stage the README.md file by clicking the "+" sign.
* [ ] Commit the change by clicking on the ellipsis in the side bar and choose "Commit -> Commit"
* [ ] Add a commit message and press Enter.

### GitHub

* [ ] Open a browser and navigate to https://github.com/new
* [ ] Create a new repo named "hello-world" scoped to your username
* [ ] Follow the instructions to push the repo created in the previous step up to GitHub.

### Blog

In this section, you will create a blog hosted on GitHub.

* [ ] [Create a blog using GitHub Pages][gh_pages]

## Discussion

Please add a comment to this issue to answer the following questions:

1. What is a terminal?
1. How do you change directories in a terminal?
1. How do you list the files and directories in a terminal?
1. How do you initialize a new `git` repo?
1. How do you add a new file to `git`?

## Conclusion

In this lesson, you have learned to use a terminal to create a new git repo,
add files to git, and to publish those files to GitHub. You also learned
to use your coding skills to publish a custom profile page and add the CodeChica
organization badge to your profile.

## Bonus

* [ ] Watch [Working Locally](https://youtu.be/rBbbOouhI-s)
* [ ] Watch [What's a Repository?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmX4kyB2wfg)
* [ ] Complete https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/ramp-up-on-git-and-github
* [ ] Complete each of the [GitHub Guides][guides]

[codespace]: https://github.com/CodeChica/plus-plus/blob/main/doc/codespaces.md#creating-your-codespace
[guides]: https://guides.github.com/
[profile_readme_guide]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/managing-your-profile-readme#adding-a-profile-readme
[gh_pages]: https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/github-pages
