---
name: "Lesson 0x03"
about: Testing and pair programming.
title: "Lesson 0x03"
labels: ''
assignees: ''
---

## Introduction

In this lesson we will introduce testing and pair programming. We will continue to work collaboratively by submitting pull requests and reviewing each other's code. We will also learn the value of writing clean, readable code.

By the end of this lesson:

* you will get an existing suite of test passing.
* you will write your first test.
* you will reproduce and fix your first bug.
* you will review code and give feedback.
* you will refactor your code.

### Why Test Driven Development (TDD)?

Test driven development is the process of writing tests before actually coding anything. This helps a developer think about the requirements of a feature they're working on before writing the code for it. You can be more sure that you haven't missed anything important about a feature's needs when you use this process. 

Test driven development also makes refactoring much easier because we don't have to worry about breaking any existing code. If we make changes, and something does change, a test will fail (essentially warning us), and we can make sure everything works again before pushing changes to the main branch of our project. TDD also helps with better code coverage, which leads to fewer bugs in your application. Finally, you can look back on your code and know exactly what you were trying to do by reading your tests.

### Intro to Ruby

#### irb

Irb stands for "Interactive Ruby". The irb will read Ruby code that we've written, and return the result to us. Let's try it out!

* [ ] In your terminal, type "irb", and press enter.
* [ ] From here, if we were working with some already written code, we could use the irb to see what our code does. For now, we can just define some variables in the terminal to get an idea of how the irb works. Type "name = 'Your name'". Replace with your name. Hit enter.
* [ ] Now type "name" and enter. Your name should print to the screen!

You've successfully used the irb! Let's see what else we can do with Ruby.

#### Data types:

* Array - group of things
  * `numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`
* Strings 
  * Can be written with double (" ") or single (' ') quotes
  * `'This is a string'`
  * `"So is this"`
* Integers
  * integers (1, 10, 30000)
  * floats (1.1232, -1.234324)
* Objects

#### Objects

* Objects hold data.
* Objects have "behavior".
* Let's say we want to create several objects that are plants. We can start by creating a plant "class".
```rb
class Plant
end
```
* This class will allow us to create plant objects that hold their own data and exhibit behavior. We can start by initializing a plant object to include some universal data that applies to any plant.
```rb
class Plant
  attr_reader :color
  
  def initialize
    @color = "green"
  end
end
```
* We can also allow a user to submit their own info when they create a plant object.
```rb
class Plant
  attr_reader :color, :light, :height, :age
  
  def initialize(light, height, age)
    @color = "green"
    @light = light
    @height = height
    @age = age
  end
end
```
* Now different plants can have their own light requirements, height, and age!
* Finally, we can get our plant to do certain behaviors.
```rb
  class Plant
  attr_reader :color, :light, :height, :age
  
  def initialize(light, height, age)
    @color = "green"
    @light = light
    @height = height
    @age = age
  end
  
  def grow(sun)
    if sun == light
      height += 1
      puts "Thanks for the nutrients!"
    elsif sun > light
     puts "That's too much light!"
    elsif sun < light
      height -= 1
      "Help...need...sunlight"
    end
  end
end
```
* Now a plant object is able to grow based on the amount of sunlight passed into the grow method.

#### Practice

* [ ] In the ruby file, and on a new line, write out some new plant objects, like so:
  * `snake_plant = Plant.new(light: 1, height: 1, age: 0)`
* [ ] Open the irb. Now you'll be able to see your plant objects and what they can do!
```
  snake_plant.color
    => "green"
  snake_plant.light
    => 1
  snake_plant.height
    => 1
  snake_plant.grow(1)
    => "Thanks for the nutrients!"
  snake_plant.height
    => 2
```

Resources: 
* [Intro to Ruby Cheatsheet] (https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-ruby/modules/learn-ruby-introduction-to-ruby-u/cheatsheet)

### Get an existing suite of tests to pass

* [ ] Open up codespaces
* [ ] In your terminal, run `bin/rails test`
* [ ] One at a time, get each test to pass. Use the following steps to problem solve if you get stuck:
  1. Understand the error
  2. Research a solution
  3. Ask a peer for help
  4. Ask an instructor

### Write your first test

When we write tests, we follow the steps of "Red, Green, Refactor". What this means is, we first write a test for a feature we want to build. That feature has not been written yet, so our test will fail at first (red). We write the simplest code to get our test to pass (green), and finally refactor to make our code better.

* [ ] Brainstorm 3-5 features you want your app to do. Use this pattern to get started: "When (context) is established, it (behavior)."
  * Example: "When a user submits a sparkle, the sparkle gets added to a list of all sparkles for that user."
* [ ] Pick one of your features, and write a test for it! Start by defining the test first:
```rb
def test_creating_a_new_sparkle_adds_it_to_the_list_of_all_sparkles_for_a_user
end
```
* [ ] In order to write our test, we're going to use the pattern "Arrange, Act, Assert". If you think of putting on a play, first we have the set the stage. That's our "arrange" in this example:
```rb
def test_creating_a_new_sparkle_adds_it_to_the_list_of_all_sparkles_for_a_user
  # arrange
  kirsty = User.new(name: "Kirsty")
  yoshi = User.new(name: "Yoshi") 
end
```
* [ ] Next is the "act" portion. We're "acting" upon our variables that we set up earlier.
```rb
def test_creating_a_new_sparkle_adds_it_to_the_list_of_all_sparkles_for_a_user
  # arrange
  kirsty = User.new(name: "Kirsty")
  yoshi = User.new(name: "Yoshi")
  # act
  sparkle = Sparkle.new(sender: kirsty.id, receiver: yoshi.id, message: "Good boy!")
  result = kirsty.sparkles # Here, I'm checking all of the sparkles associated with the user "kirsty", which should now include the new sparkle.
end
```
* [ ] Finally, we have "assert" which is checking to see if the result matches what we expect it to be.
```rb
def test_creating_a_new_sparkle_adds_it_to_the_list_of_all_sparkles_for_a_user
  # arrange
  kirsty = User.new(name: "Kirsty")
  yoshi = User.new(name: "Yoshi")
  # act
  sparkle = Sparkle.new(sender: kirsty.id, receiver: yoshi.id, message: "Good boy!")
  result = kirsty.sparkles
  # assert
  assert_equal(result, [sparkle])
end
```
* [ ] Remember, our test won't pass right away because we haven't written the code for the feature yet, but we want to make sure that our test is failing for the right reasons. From here, you should get a failing test message that looks like: "Expected: [sparkle]. Got: nil." This tells us that our code currently doesn't allow us to add sparkles to a user's list of all sparkles. 
* [ ] Get your test to pass! Write the minimum amount of code that will get your test to pass.
* [ ] Follow the same process for the rest of the features you brainstormed in step 1.

### Peer Review

* [ ] In your terminal, type `git checkout -b branch-name`. You can use your name with `branch-name`, i.e. `kirsty-brewster`.
* [ ] Type `git add .`. The `.` means "all" files in this directory.
* [ ] Type `git status` to make sure all your changes were added. You should see everything in green.
* [ ] Type `git commit -m "Short message about changes made."`. Replace the example message with your own.
* [ ] Finally, type `git push`.

Pair with someone who is also done writing their first test. You will be able to see a message that says "(Student name) made changes to this repository."
 * [ ] Click the green button to review the changes.
 * [ ] When giving feedback, use the "critique sandwich" method.
  1. Say something positive about your partner's code.
  2. Give your critiques. What could be better? What do you have questions about?
  3. End with another positive!
 * [ ] Once you're done, click "submit for review."

### Refactor

When you receive notes from your teammates, now is when you can look at how to improve your code. Keep these things in mind when refactoring:
1. Does your code do what it should do well?
2. KISS (Keep it simple, silly). 
3. Functions should be responsible for one thing in general. This is the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP). Do you have any functions that are long and can be broken up in this way?
4. Keep it DRY. DRY stands for "Don't Repeat Yourself". Do you see any code that repeats and could be put into it's own function to simplify your code? If so, go ahead and do that!
5. Keep methods small. Create chunks of code that you can reuse in different places.

None of these are hard and fast rules, so use your best judgement. Ultimately, we should care about "readability". Will you be able to make sense of your code when you come back to it later? Will others be able to understand your code and what it's doing?

### Rinse and repeat

Repeat the peer review and refactor steps until you are happy with the state of your code. Then, start from Step 1 again, and write more tests!

## Discussion

Please add a comment to this issue to answer the following questions:

1. What are some Ruby data types?
2. What is an object in Ruby?
3. Why are tests important?
4. What is "Red, Green, Refactor"?
5. What is "Arrange, Act, Assert"?
6. Name some strategies for writing clean code.

## Conclusion

In this lesson, you learned about test driven development and the reasons for its use. You also learned some intro Ruby concepts in order to get your first suite of tests to pass and to write your own tests. Finally, you practiced peer reviewing someone else's code, and refactoring to make your code better.
