---
name: "Lesson 0x04"
about: The Software Engineering Lifecycle.
title: "Lesson 0x04"
labels: ''
assignees: ''
---

## Introduction

In this lesson, you will learn about the Software Engineering Lifecycle, and explore an overview of product manager & designer roles in tech. 

By the end of this lesson:

* you will explore Product Manager and Designer roles in tech
* you will come up with an idea for a new feature
* you will create a wireframe for your feature idea

### Getting Started

* [ ] Icebreaker - TBD
* [ ] Exercises on GitHub maybe?

### Software Engineering Lifecycle

* [ ] How does a thought get turned into a product?
* [ ] Different Phases: Planning Stage, Requirements, Feasibility, Design, Prototyping, Implementation, Testing
* [ ] Mini Pop Quiz: What phase are we in now? 
* [ ] Encourage students to research outside of class if interested 

### Introduction to Roles - Product Manager Overview
* [ ] 

### Introduction to Roles - Designer Overview

* [ ] 

### Activity - Brainstorm a Feature! (30 minutes) 

* [ ] You will now come up with an idea for a feature for SparkleHub. 
* [ ] Consider: 

- What is the issue you are solving?
- What is your feature? (definition) 
- How will you know it is done? 

* [ ] You will also create a wireframe for your feature idea. 

## Discussion

Please add a comment to this issue to answer the following questions:

1. What does a Product Manager do? 
1. What does a Designer do? 
1. What is the purpose of a wireframe?
1. What is your feature idea? 

## Conclusion

In this lesson, you learned about how developers turn a thought or idea into a product. You were introduced to different roles in tech. You learned an overview of what a Product Manager and Designer does. You came up with your own feature idea for SparkleHub, and got to test out being a Product Manager and Designer, by coming up with a definition and wireframe. 
